# Attendify XRPL API library

[Demo showcasing how to use it](https://youtu.be/YLdJcGXUpjI)

## Project information

Attendify is an API for PoA(proof of attendance system) built on the XRP ledger that can provide easy and secure way to mint and distribute NFTs or verify attendance at a wide range of events and activities happening in real life or online. Few potential uses for it are:

⚫University students can use the system to quickly verify attendance at lectures, seminars or other educational events.

⚫Large events like conferences etc where it can be difficult to keep track of who has attended and who didn't.

⚫Verifying employee showing up at meetings, training sessions etc.

Project was firstly developed during [XRPL NFT hackathon.](https://devpost.com/software/xrp-nft-attendence)

## Features

⚫ Creating new events and batch minting NFTs for it

⚫ Uploading NFT metadata to IPFS

⚫ Checking if it's possible to claim NFTs for particular event

⚫ Requesting claim for NFT from particular event. The new sell offer for NFT that has to be accepted by the user is returned

⚫ Event attendees lookup

⚫ NFT ownership verification

## Documentation

**Note: for mock calls to these endpoints and example usage see test.js**

### Attendify.js

⚫ Current version of documentation for Attendify.js is in the `docs` folder and was generated by jsdoc. Latest version of docs is hosted [here](https://justanotherdevv.github.io/AttendifyXRPL/Attendify.html).

### REST API endpoints

This API is built using the ExpressJS framework and the XRPL library, it connect to the local Attendify.js class to perform most of the actions.

⚫ `GET /api/mint` - Creates new claimable event and premints NFTs for it. You must have at least X XRP in order to use this to handle the reserve requirements for the NFTs and the minting process which uses [Tickets](https://xrpl.org/tickets.html), where X is amount of tokens that should be minted multiplied by 2 + additional XRP for feees.

**@param {string} walletAddress** - Wallet address from user requesting claim

**@param {integer} tokenCount** - Amount of NFTs that should be created for the event

**@param {string} url** - Url to Image for event | Preferably this should be stored on IPFS

**@param {string} title** - Title for event

**@param {string} desc** - Description of event

**@param {string} loc** - Location of event

**@returns {object} result** - An object with details for the claim event that was successfully created

**Structure of the example result object:**

`{
  eventId: 0,
  account: 'rJ7t4Ei9Q2gs3uZoSLaVajE771Wt9GuuxR',
  owner: 'rJnCJZZXSSnuDi9YVgrAatVqSvktTeXr5r',
  URI: 'https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmWveeBaaPQJhREN523qG5M3ciVmLA6Z271dA1qasVDixw',
  title: 'test_title',
  claimable: 3
}
     `

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/mint?walletAddress=rpHJL8bRW81shYm3LwwsXovABps6SM51RS&tokenCount=5&url=ipfs://QmQDDD1cNgnyhPC4pBLZKhVeu12oyfCAJoWr1Qc1QgbkPN&title=test_title&desc=test_description&loc=Warsaw`

⚫ `GET /api/claim` - Checks if user is eligible for NFT claim or creates new offer that allows for claiming NFT for specific event. Endpoint returns response with sellOfferID that has to be accepted by user afterwards.

**@param {string} walletAddress** - The wallet address of the user trying to claim

**@param {integer} type** - The type of claim (1 for checking claim status and metadata, 2 for claiming)

**@param {string} minter** - The minter address of the event

**@param {string} eventId** - The ID of the event

**@returns {object} result** - An object with the event metadata and offer for NFT

**Possible responses**

    -`404` - Event with specified ID does not exist

    -`claimed` - The NFT for specified event was already claimed by this user

    -`empty` - All NFTs for this particular event were already claimed

    -`success` - If `onlyCheckStatus` parameter was true it indicated that current parameters for selected event were sent

    -`transferred` - Indicates that new sell offer for NFT related to selected event was created successfully and details were sent to user

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/claim?walletAddress=rpHJL8bRW81shYm3LwwsXovABps6SM51RS&type=2&minter=rMBU1wwAJZZz36YBNxug7YYHKeC5k3vqfG&eventId=0`

⚫ `GET /api/startVerification` - Starts ownership verification process by generating unique ID for user that has to later be included in a Memo of signed tx. Save the ID returned from this endpoint you're gonna need it for the `api/verifyOwnership` to finalize verification process. In case of forgetting or losing this Id you can always generate a new one by calling this endpoint again.

**@param {string} walletAddress** - Wallet address from user requesting verification

**@returns {object} result** - An object with generated Memo ID string

File `acceptOffer.js` contains example of accepting NFT offer that was created during previous step.

Run this file locally with 2 arguments just like the example below to generate signed tx blob

- The first argument is seed for the user wallet

- The second argument should be NFT offer IF returned from `api/mint` endpoint

  `node .\acceptOffer.js sEdVMJSLjuTAjaSeeZ6TEkpUWuTS83j 80517CC6087108B777710DFD0C48B6CB66A43947A96CA4C4B145574E27E9749A`

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/verifyOwnership?walletAddress=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5&signature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minter=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5&eventId=0`

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/startVerification?walletAddress=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5`

⚫ `GET /api/verifyOwnership` - Verifies whether or not user owns NFT with provided id for particular event from `minter` account.

**@param {string} walletAddress** - Wallet address from user requesting verification

**@param {string} signature** - Signature that should be signed by the same account as walletAddress. This could be done either using XUMM or `sign` function from xrpl library. The mock transaction from signature has to contain memo with ID generated for walletAddress in `api/startVerification` endpoint. See mock transaction JSON below or test.js for example implementation of this

**@param {string} minter** - The minter address of the event

**@param {string} eventId** - The ID of the event

**@returns {object} result - An object with the verification result as a boolean**

`{
  "Account": "rf1BiGeXwwQoi8Z2ueFYTEXSwuJYfV2Jpn",
  "TransactionType": "AccountSet",
  "Fee": "12",
  "Sequence": 5,
  "Domain": "6578616D706C652E636F6D",
  "SetFlag": 5,
  "MessageKey": "03AB40A0490F9B7ED8DF29D246BF2D6269820A0EE7742ACDD457BEA7C7D0931EDB",
  "Memos": [
    {
      "Memo": {
        "MemoData": "<ID_string_returned_from_server_and_turned_hex_using_convertStringToHex_from_xrpl.js>"
      }
    }
  ]
}`

File `signature.js` contains example of local signature generation required for the next verification step.

Run this file locally with 2 arguments just like the example below to generate signed tx blob

- The first argument is seed for the user wallet

- The second argument should be verification ID returned from `api/startVerification` endpoint

  `node .\signature.js sEdVMJSLjuTAjaSeeZ6TEkpUWuTS83j PPrnp3O4FI3Z5VCnMvvsMwzjMCmrtZnUNqWQEqkGXIuGJ7xzpCdhUql3X9SwlP1d1unotJX8FHCMJTgbYUQfa7b1nSVb7FY9wSrWH3NxQIF9py1MXfOGGiZyjM6S4WuxhxK1Ru499u9jhnZ3vhifyRPVYFytDD2YUsjqG7F3ojWkVC4VoOEHP4uuztfb2k0ZueCIP1tfbgoAXEuU5DxoSLAWx9kP3b7nKuOqV6lvlbKWGzCI5xE1YG5ExTkowk0M`

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/verifyOwnership?walletAddress=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5&signature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minter=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5&eventId=0`

⚫ `GET /api/attendees` - Looks up attendees for event with specific id with NFTs create by minter address.

**@param {string} minter** - The minter address of the event

**@param {string} eventId** - The ID of the event

**@returns {object} result** - An object with the list of attendees

Example request `http://localhost:4000/api/attendees?minter=raY33uxEbZFg7YS1ofFRioeENLsVdCgpC5&eventId=0`

## ToDo

⚫ Whitelist system

⚫ Configuration: e.g. choosing whether or not NFTs are soulbound

⚫ If called again by the same user the claim endpoint should check if sell offer that wasn't accepted exists and it should be returned instead of showing that NFT was claimed

⚫ Checking whether or not deadline for claiming NFTs has passed

⚫ Integration with updated UI and XUMM wallet

## How to setup

⚫execute `npm i` in CLI

⚫copy .env.example content to .env file and fill with your data and API keys from INFURA dashboard. [Here's a guide](https://docs.infura.io/infura/getting-started) showcasing how you can quickly get these keys.

⚫execute `npm run start` in CLI to start the server

⚫execute `npm run test` to start test process
